HELIUS_SETUP.md, before:

# Helius API Key Setup Guide

This guide will help you fix the **"invalid api key provided"** error and properly configure your Helius API key for DegenScore.

## The Error

If you see this error:
```json
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","error":{"code":-32401,"message":"invalid api key provided"}}
```

It means your Helius API key is either **missing**, **invalid**, or **incorrectly configured**.

## Solution: Step-by-Step Setup

### Step 1: Get a Free Helius API Key

1. Go to **[https://www.helius.dev](https://www.helius.dev)**
2. Click **"Sign Up"** or **"Get Started"**
3. Create an account (free tier available)
4. Once logged in, go to **Dashboard** → **API Keys**
5. Click **"Create New API Key"**
6. Copy your API key (it will look like: `a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890`)

### Step 2: Configure Your Project

1. **Create a `.env.local` file** in the root of your project:
   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. **Edit `.env.local`** and add your Helius API key:
   ```bash
   # Helius API (REQUIRED)
   HELIUS_API_KEY="your-actual-api-key-here"
   ```

   **Replace** `"your-actual-api-key-here"` with your real API key from Step 1.

3. **Verify your `.env.local` file**:
   ```bash
   cat .env.local | grep HELIUS_API_KEY
   ```

   You should see your actual API key, NOT placeholders like:
   - ❌ `TU-KEY-AQUI`
   - ❌ `your-helius-api-key-here`
   - ❌ `your-actual-api-key-here`
   - ✅ `a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890` (example format)

### Step 3: Restart Your Development Server

If your server is running, restart it to load the new environment variables:

```bash
# Stop the server (Ctrl+C)
# Then start it again:
npm run dev
```

### Step 4: Test Your Setup

You can test if your API key is working by running:

```bash
curl "https://api.helius.xyz/v0/addresses/B7nB9QX1KC4QXp5GMxR8xzh3yzoqp6NjxSwfNBXtgPc1/transactions?api-key=YOUR_ACTUAL_KEY&limit=1"
```

**Replace `YOUR_ACTUAL_KEY`** with your real Helius API key.

If successful, you'll see JSON data with transactions. If you still see the error, double-check that:
- You copied the correct API key from Helius dashboard
- The API key doesn't have any extra spaces or quotes
- Your Helius account is active

## Common Issues

### Issue 1: "HELIUS_API_KEY is not configured"

**Cause**: The `.env.local` file doesn't exist or doesn't contain `HELIUS_API_KEY`.

**Solution**: Follow Step 2 above to create and configure `.env.local`.

### Issue 2: "Invalid Helius API key"

**Cause**: The API key is incorrect, expired, or has been revoked.

**Solution**:
1. Log into your [Helius dashboard](https://www.helius.dev)
2. Check if your API key is still active
3. If not, create a new API key and update `.env.local`

### Issue 3: API key works in curl but not in the app

**Cause**: The app hasn't loaded the new environment variables.

**Solution**:
1. Make sure `.env.local` is in the project root (same directory as `package.json`)
2. Restart your dev server completely
3. If using Vercel/production, make sure to add the environment variable in your deployment settings

## Environment File Hierarchy

The project uses different `.env` files:

| File | Purpose | Git |
|------|---------|-----|
| `.env.example` | Example template | Committed |
| `.env.local.example` | Detailed example | Committed |
| `.env.local` | **YOUR ACTUAL KEYS** | **NOT committed** |
| `.env.production` | Production keys (Vercel) | **NOT committed** |

**IMPORTANT**: Never commit your `.env.local` file with real API keys to git!

## Where the API Key is Used

The Helius API key is used throughout the application for:

1. **Fetching wallet transactions** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getWalletTransactions()`
2. **Getting token metadata** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getTokenMetadata()`
3. **Checking wallet balances** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getWalletBalance()`
4. **RPC connections** - Solana Web3.js connections

## Production Deployment

When deploying to Vercel/Render/other platforms:

1. Go to your project settings
2. Add environment variables:
   - `HELIUS_API_KEY` = your-api-key
3. Redeploy the application
4. The platform will inject the environment variable at runtime

## Security Best Practices

- ✅ **DO** keep your API key in `.env.local`
- ✅ **DO** use different API keys for development and production
- ✅ **DO** rotate your API keys periodically
- ❌ **DON'T** commit `.env.local` to git
- ❌ **DON'T** share your API key publicly
- ❌ **DON'T** hardcode API keys in source code

## Need Help?

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. Check the application logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify your Helius account is active and has available credits
3. Try creating a new API key in the Helius dashboard
4. Open an issue on GitHub with the error details (but DON'T include your actual API key!)

## References

- [Helius Documentation](https://docs.helius.dev/)
- [Helius Free Tier](https://www.helius.dev/pricing)
- [Environment Variables in Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables)

Commit message:

fix: correct Helius API batch size limit from 1000 to 100
This commit fixes the "invalid query parameter limit" error by adjusting the
transaction fetch batch size to comply with Helius API constraints.

Changes:
- lib/metricsEngine.ts:
  - Reduced BATCH_SIZE from 1000 to 100 (Helius API maximum)
  - Increased MAX_BATCHES from 30 to 100 to maintain coverage
  - Now fetches up to 10,000 transactions (100 batches × 100 transactions)

- HELIUS_SETUP.md:
  - Added API Limits and Constraints section
  - Documented the maximum limit per request (100 transactions)
  - Explained total transaction fetch limits

The Helius Enhanced Transactions API has a maximum limit of 100 transactions
per request. The previous value of 1000 was causing HTTP 400 errors with
"invalid query parameter limit" messages.

Fixes: Transaction fetching errors for wallet analysis

HELIUS_SETUP.md, after:

# Helius API Key Setup Guide

This guide will help you fix the **"invalid api key provided"** error and properly configure your Helius API key for DegenScore.

## The Error

If you see this error:
```json
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","error":{"code":-32401,"message":"invalid api key provided"}}
```

It means your Helius API key is either **missing**, **invalid**, or **incorrectly configured**.

## Solution: Step-by-Step Setup

### Step 1: Get a Free Helius API Key

1. Go to **[https://www.helius.dev](https://www.helius.dev)**
2. Click **"Sign Up"** or **"Get Started"**
3. Create an account (free tier available)
4. Once logged in, go to **Dashboard** → **API Keys**
5. Click **"Create New API Key"**
6. Copy your API key (it will look like: `a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890`)

### Step 2: Configure Your Project

1. **Create a `.env.local` file** in the root of your project:
   ```bash
   cp .env.local.example .env.local
   ```

2. **Edit `.env.local`** and add your Helius API key:
   ```bash
   # Helius API (REQUIRED)
   HELIUS_API_KEY="your-actual-api-key-here"
   ```

   **Replace** `"your-actual-api-key-here"` with your real API key from Step 1.

3. **Verify your `.env.local` file**:
   ```bash
   cat .env.local | grep HELIUS_API_KEY
   ```

   You should see your actual API key, NOT placeholders like:
   - ❌ `TU-KEY-AQUI`
   - ❌ `your-helius-api-key-here`
   - ❌ `your-actual-api-key-here`
   - ✅ `a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890` (example format)

### Step 3: Restart Your Development Server

If your server is running, restart it to load the new environment variables:

```bash
# Stop the server (Ctrl+C)
# Then start it again:
npm run dev
```

### Step 4: Test Your Setup

You can test if your API key is working by running:

```bash
curl "https://api.helius.xyz/v0/addresses/B7nB9QX1KC4QXp5GMxR8xzh3yzoqp6NjxSwfNBXtgPc1/transactions?api-key=YOUR_ACTUAL_KEY&limit=1"
```

**Replace `YOUR_ACTUAL_KEY`** with your real Helius API key.

If successful, you'll see JSON data with transactions. If you still see the error, double-check that:
- You copied the correct API key from Helius dashboard
- The API key doesn't have any extra spaces or quotes
- Your Helius account is active

## Common Issues

### Issue 1: "HELIUS_API_KEY is not configured"

**Cause**: The `.env.local` file doesn't exist or doesn't contain `HELIUS_API_KEY`.

**Solution**: Follow Step 2 above to create and configure `.env.local`.

### Issue 2: "Invalid Helius API key"

**Cause**: The API key is incorrect, expired, or has been revoked.

**Solution**:
1. Log into your [Helius dashboard](https://www.helius.dev)
2. Check if your API key is still active
3. If not, create a new API key and update `.env.local`

### Issue 3: API key works in curl but not in the app

**Cause**: The app hasn't loaded the new environment variables.

**Solution**:
1. Make sure `.env.local` is in the project root (same directory as `package.json`)
2. Restart your dev server completely
3. If using Vercel/production, make sure to add the environment variable in your deployment settings

## Environment File Hierarchy

The project uses different `.env` files:

| File | Purpose | Git |
|------|---------|-----|
| `.env.example` | Example template | Committed |
| `.env.local.example` | Detailed example | Committed |
| `.env.local` | **YOUR ACTUAL KEYS** | **NOT committed** |
| `.env.production` | Production keys (Vercel) | **NOT committed** |

**IMPORTANT**: Never commit your `.env.local` file with real API keys to git!

## Where the API Key is Used

The Helius API key is used throughout the application for:

1. **Fetching wallet transactions** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getWalletTransactions()`
2. **Getting token metadata** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getTokenMetadata()`
3. **Checking wallet balances** - `lib/services/helius.ts:getWalletBalance()`
4. **RPC connections** - Solana Web3.js connections

## API Limits and Constraints

The Helius Enhanced Transactions API has the following limits:

- **Maximum limit per request**: 100 transactions
- **Minimum limit per request**: 1 transaction
- **Default batch size**: The application uses 100 transactions per batch (maximum allowed)
- **Total transactions fetched**: Up to 10,000 transactions (100 batches × 100 transactions)

If you need to analyze wallets with more than 10,000 transactions, the application will use the most recent 10,000 transactions for analysis. This is sufficient for calculating accurate DegenScore metrics while staying within API rate limits.

## Production Deployment

When deploying to Vercel/Render/other platforms:

1. Go to your project settings
2. Add environment variables:
   - `HELIUS_API_KEY` = your-api-key
3. Redeploy the application
4. The platform will inject the environment variable at runtime

## Security Best Practices

- ✅ **DO** keep your API key in `.env.local`
- ✅ **DO** use different API keys for development and production
- ✅ **DO** rotate your API keys periodically
- ❌ **DON'T** commit `.env.local` to git
- ❌ **DON'T** share your API key publicly
- ❌ **DON'T** hardcode API keys in source code

## Need Help?

If you're still experiencing issues:

1. Check the application logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify your Helius account is active and has available credits
3. Try creating a new API key in the Helius dashboard
4. Open an issue on GitHub with the error details (but DON'T include your actual API key!)

## References

- [Helius Documentation](https://docs.helius.dev/)
- [Helius Free Tier](https://www.helius.dev/pricing)
- [Environment Variables in Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables)
